Version 1 of Conversation Topics by Textfyre begins here."Something of a compromise solution for ask/tell conversation - somewhere between the purely OO approach of Quips, and a traditional but unwieldy table-based method."Include Triggers by Textfyre.Part 1 - DefinitionsA conversation topic is a kind of trigger.A conversation topic has some text called the enquiry text.A conversation topic has some text called the response text.A person has a table-name called the conversation table.The conversation table of a person is usually the table of nothing to say.The chosen conversation table is a table-name that varies. The chosen conversation table is the table of nothing to say.The chosen conversation topic is a conversation topic that varies. The chosen conversation topic is CONV_DEFAULT.Table of nothing to saytopic			conversation"default"		CONV_DEFAULTCONV_DEFAULT is a conversation topic. The response text is "There is no reply."A person has a conversation topic called the default topic.Section 2 - FiringRule for firing a conversation topic (called c):	if the enquiry text of c is not "",		say the enquiry text of c, paragraph break;	if the response text of c is not "",		say the response text of c, paragraph break;Section 3 - Speaking WithSpeaking with something is an activity.Section 4 - Choosing a conversation tableChoosing the conversation table of something is an activity.Rule for choosing the conversation table of something (called the person):	change the chosen conversation table to the conversation table of the person;Part 2 - ActionsInstead of telling someone about something:	try asking the noun about it;Instead of answering the noun that something:	try asking the noun about it;Part 3 - ImplementationReport asking someone (called the NPC) about something:	carry out the choosing the conversation table activity with the NPC;	repeat through the chosen conversation table begin;		let the ignore flag be 0;		if the topic understood includes topic entry begin;			if there is a conversation entry begin;				change the chosen conversation topic to the conversation entry;				begin the speaking with activity with the NPC;				if handling the speaking with activity with the NPC,					fire the chosen conversation topic;				end the speaking with activity with the NPC;				rule succeeds;			end if;		end if;	end repeat;	change the chosen conversation topic to the default topic of the NPC;	begin the speaking with activity with the NPC;	if handling the speaking with activity with the NPC,		fire the default topic of the NPC;	end the speaking with activity with the NPC;	rule succeeds;Conversation Topics ends here.